local text = {
	"!Spawn1",
[[Greetings %s, welcome to the Imperial city of Vyyrahk, the capital of the Vaktovian Empire.

I am an Automated Introduction Drone, or AID; your introductory guide to our fair city.

Please do not touch or interact with the AID at any time. Punishment for doing so is immediate arrest.

Thank you for your cooperation.

%s, as part of your introduction to Vyyrahk, you will be shown the fundamentals to successful city life.

For your convenience, it is important to learn how to make use of all abilities at your disposal. You may try these now.

!ViewSelf

For instance, you can switch between jogging and walking with [Q], as well as sprint with [SHIFT]. You can also crouch with [C] or [CTRL] and crawl with [X].

You can also punch with [LEFT MOUSE BUTTON], as well as climb over low walls by holding [SPACE] while facing them.

But be aware, strenuous actions such as sprinting or jumping will reduce your stamina, which regenerates over time, faster while standing still.

You can access your inventory with the [ ` ] key (to the left of the 1 key/under Esc key), or by selecting Inventory in the Utility Menu [U].

You can discard items from your inventory by double-clicking on the red X in the top right corner of the item.

Pressing [T] or using your scroll wheel will toggle between first-person and over-the-shoulder third person.

You can also look around you by holding [V] in third person, this can be useful for inspecting your own appearance in comparison to your surroundings.

Lastly, your chat messages only have a 60 stud radius range, anyone beyond that will NOT see them in the chat box.

However you can use the prefix /s in your message to shout, which increases your range to 120 studs. Or /wh to whisper, which decreases it to 10 studs and only sends it to people within your line of sight.

If you ever need a reminder of these controls, you can see a list of them in the Information Screen, by pressing [I], as well as a brief guide to life in Vyyrahk.

You can also replay this introduction at any time by accessing it through the main menu.

Now that we have covered movement, please follow this AID to the [NOVARSK DISTRICT] to continue to the next phase of your orientation.

!Spawn2]],
[[%s, welcome to the [NOVARSK DISTRICT], the industrial heart of Vyyrahk City and your initial home zone.

You can view the Map of Vyyrahk’s central areas by pressing [M]. This Map includes all points of interest as well as your present location.

You can also use [U] to open the Utility Menu where you can quickly access the Map and Job Map as well as other important menus along the left side of the interface.

In order to access other zones, or ‘Districts’, of the city, you must obtain the required License to be permitted entry. 

You also require a Driver’s License in order to operate vehicles in the city, and a Gun License to use firearms.


These Licenses can be purchased at the Novarsk Police Station, which you then permanently activate by equipping and pressing [LEFT MOUSE BUTTON]. 

You can view all your active and inactive Licenses in the License Screen by pressing [L] at any time.

A word of caution, %s. All Districts of Vyyrahk follow a nightly curfew of midnight until 6AM. You can view what time it currently is in the top right of your screen.


During curfew hours, you must either be indoors or in a vehicle, or you will be arrested by law enforcement personnel. [//THIS IS FOR YOUR OWN SAFETY//].

It is now time for you to get a taste of what working life in Vyyrahk is like, and more importantly, how you can earn yourself some Vaktovian Imperial Credits, also known as ‘VICs’.

You can easily view all of the different careers and roles you can play in Vyyrahk by pressing [U] and viewing the ‘Careers’ page. Clicking on one of the job icons will show you a description of the job and how to do it. 

In this menu you can also view the ‘Places to See’ page, where you can read about each of Vyyrahk’s popular spots to visit.

Please now try viewing the 'Careers' and 'Places to See' pages in the Utility menu by pressing [U] to open the menu. You can click on some of the jobs or places to read more about them and find out if any interest you.

!Careers/Places

While you are active on a job, you will see it highlighted in the Careers page and be able to chat with anyone else in the game doing that same job with the “/j [text]” or “/job [text]” command.

In order to find a place to work, you can view the Job Map with [J]. Each marker is a location where you can start a job from. 

When you walk to it and interact by pressing [E], it will show you a description of the job along with any requirements there are in order to start it.

Now %s you will be shown a brief lesson on how to be a Factory Worker in the nearby factory job.

Please, access your Job Map [J] and look for the Factory Worker job marker nearby us. Walk to that location and interact with the marker to accept the job.

!ViewSelf
!WaitForJob

As a Factory Worker your task will be to maintain the shipyards by repairing gas leaks. You can find them all throughout the docks but for now just focus on the ones inside the Factory next to the job marker.

Now enter the factory building. For each gas leak you fix with [E] you will be paid in VICs for your hard work. Once you reach 30 VICs we will proceed with the next part of your orientation.

!WaitFor20VICs

Well done %s! I bet you can’t wait to spend some of those hard earned Credits.

So, follow me and you shall be shown the basics of putting those Credits to the most use.

!QuitFactoryJob
!Spawn3
]],
[[Here we are, %s, this market is one of the many places you can purchase food in Vyyrahk. 

Food and drinks are extremely important for preserving your health, as each item you consume refills some of your health bar.

Note that food regains more health, but at a slower rate than drinks. If you’re in need of a quick heal, a drink will be much more beneficial in the short term.

Be warned that you will take damage from falling from heights, and should be careful of other environmental dangers whilst exploring the city.

Such as moving vehicles, the electrified train rails, or the acidic ocean waters. These are threats you should remember to avoid where possible.

If your health drops to zero, you will become incapacitated and need another person to help you up. You will also drop some of the credits from your wallet to the ground.

Often a Paramedic will be dispatched to aid you if they are nearby, but if your bleed out timer runs out, then you will go unconscious and wake up at the nearest hospital.

As you can see from your ‘Incapacitation’ counter at the bottom left of your screen, you can be incapacitated three times before you will instantly go unconscious after the fourth time. 

These Incapacitation Lives regenerate slowly over time, one per ten minutes. Remember that if you are hospitalized, you will lose any non-permanent items on your person.

You may have also noticed that your maximum health is not filling up your entire health bar, that is unfortunately due to our local climate here on Vaktovian planets.

The pollution can be very detrimental to your health, so you are advised to purchase and wear a pollution mask to raise your maximum health.

Note that there are several different grades of pollution mask, the better they are the higher maximum health you gain. 

The most effective, but expensive solution is a cybernetic implant that filters the air for you internally. This allows you to have full maximum health without requiring any headwear.

Such an implant can be found at the Stroude Arms gun dealer in the [EMPYREAN DISTRICT] of the city and remains applied to you permanently once used.

Clothing you are wearing and cars will remain in your inventory forever, even if you die. However all other tools will disappear if you bleed out, such as food, weapons and clothing that you aren’t wearing.

If you own a house you can store spare clothing in your wardrobe by pressing [K] while inside your home. Items put into the wardrobe will be saved even if you die.

Before we proceed to the next section of your orientation %s, please buy food from this store to show what you have learned.

You can select the item to buy from the list on the left side of the shop interface, then simply press the ‘Buy’ option.

!ViewSelf
!BuyAnItem

Great work %s, looks delicious! Let us proceed to the next section of your introduction to Vyyrahk City.

!Spawn4]],
[[
!ViewSelfATM
This is the [NOVARSK DISTRICT] bank, here you can transfer Credits from your wallet to your bank account by speaking to one of the Cashiers inside a bank such as this.

They can be found in the [VALIA DISTRICT] bank as well. Alternatively, there are many ATMs throughout the city that you can use the same way as Cashiers in the bank. 

It is extremely important to store your Credits wisely! As a large portion of the funds from your wallet will be dropped to the ground whenever you are incapacitated.

Only the Credits in your bank account are safe when you get incapacitated, however they cannot be spent while they are in the bank.

Take care while at banks, as criminals can engage in heists to gain a large amount of Credits in a short period of time by accessing the safe inside. This is also possible in the [ATLEY DISTRICT] jewelry store, and [VALIA DISTRICT] bank marked on your Map [M].

In the Cashier menu you can also transfer money to anyone you wish to, through the Send Funds menu. This can also be done at any time by accessing the Send Money Screen [O].

Money sent to people in the bank or at ATMs goes from your bank account to theirs, whereas using the Send Money Screen [O] sends money from your wallet to their wallet.

%s, please deposit some of your Credits to your bank account by speaking to one of the Cashiers inside the bank.

!ViewSelf
!WaitForDeposit

Good job! When you earn more Credits, you may wish to purchase a home to live in. These can be found all throughout Vyyrahk, and come in many different types, from shacks to palaces, depending on the price.

To purchase a house, explore the city to find green icons of a house and interact with it to purchase. The icon will turn yellow, and you will then be able to enter by interacting with it.

If you own a house, you can interact with the bed inside to set it as your spawn. From that point on, you will always start there when you enter the city each day. 

You can also invite your friends over to your house by using the “/invite PlayerName” command while inside your house. They will then receive an option to type “/accept” if they wish to be teleported inside.

A great way to earn a lot of Credits is to invest in a business, these can be found across the city the same way as homes can. Look out for floating green icons of factory buildings while you explore to interact with.

Once you buy a business, it will permanently belong to you. These generate Credits over time, with the more expensive businesses generating faster funds with a higher maximum capacity. 

Be cautious though, criminals might try to ambush you on your way to the bank after collecting your profits, as they will know you just picked up a large sum!

Now %s, we’ll move on to the last phase of your introduction to Vyyrahk and let you begin your journey to fame and fortune.

!Spawn5]],
[[Our capital is a wonderful place, but the lower districts can also be very dangerous. For this reason, this AID unit is obliged to show you the basics of self-defense weapons.

There are many places in Vyyrahk that you can purchase guns and hand to hand weapons, obtaining one is essential to your safety.

In these gun stores you can also purchase Ammo in order to restock your weapon's ammunition.

Please, purchase the practice handgun in this store, you will then be taught how to use it.

!ViewSelf
!WaitForPracticeHandGun

Very good, %s. You must only use weapons in self-defense, any use that isn’t for your own personal protection will result in arrest and imprisonment.

You can fire with [LEFT MOUSE BUTTON], and aim down the sights with [RIGHT MOUSE BUTTON]. Reloading requires you to hold [R] until the reloading process is complete.


Note that firing while aiming down the sights will increase your accuracy. However, with automatic weapons it will decrease the longer you fire continuously.

You can also melee attack with [Z] and enter an at-ease stance with [G]. 

Be aware that both bullet travel time and bullet drop should be taken into account when firing a weapon. 

The expensive weapons in the upper districts are much more powerful than the ones available here, be especially cautious of anyone you encounter using laser-based weaponry.

If you need assistance and Police units are in your district, you can contact them by typing “/911 (Your message)” at a fee of 300 VICs per message.


A final word of advice to conclude your introduction to Vaktovia. There are many great benefits of gaining an official Citizenship status as a Vaktovian. 

If you wish to apply, join the official Imperial Vaktovia group and the Vaktovian Community Network in Vyyrahk's social links to look for announcements of upcoming Citizenship Classes.

These classes are held in Vyyrahk at the Tamakan College, if you pass you officially become a citizen of Vaktovia and are then able to sign up to join the military through the VAC.

You can learn more in the Tamakan College page of the Places to See section in the Utility Menu [U].


Congratulations, %s! Now that you know how to defend yourself and earn a living, you are ready to experience what life is like in our Empire’s capital for yourself.

!ViewPalace

We hope you enjoy the many attractions our city offers, such as gladiator fighting in the Metrac Coliseum, hover chariot racing in the the Makstus Stadium, debating in the Senate and most of all - visiting the Imperial Palace, paradise of the rich!

!Wait2

Remember, always follow the instructions of Police forces and remain respectful at all times. Keep your distance from law enforcement personnel in order to avoid being mistaken for an attacker.

On behalf of the Visionary’s Alliance of Kinsmen [V.A.K] party, this AID unit hopes you enjoy our beautiful capital and wishes you, %s, good luck in your future endeavors. 

Glory to Vaktovia!

 
!Finish
]]}
